OSDOCS Nodes Additional Artifact Store : GA 5.0 (#118494)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage-limitations.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/nodes/nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage-limitations_{context}"]
= Limitations and known issues with additional CRI-O storage locations

[role="_abstract"]
When working with additional CRI-O storage locations, make note of the limitations and known issues that could affect your cluster.

The following limitations and known issues have been identified for additional CRI-O storage:

* Lazy image pulling relies on HTTP Range requests to pull in chunks. As such, your registry must support HTTP range requests. If not supported, CRI-O falls back to standard image pulls.

> * For lazy image pulling, you must convert the pulled container images from the standard OCI format to a lazy-pull-compatible format, such as eStargz or Nydus.

Reviewer: This lists "eStargz or Nydus" as lazy-pull-compatible formats but omits zstd:chunked, which is the only GA format in the backends compatibility matrix. Users following the GA path would use zstd:chunked, not eStargz or Nydus (both TP).

Author: > Users following the GA path would use zstd:chunked, not eStargz or Nydus (both TP).

What is the GA path? The user just needs to convert the container image to zstd:chunked format. When you do the pull, CRI-O knows to do the partial pull.
You suggested that zstd:chunked doesn't use `additionalLayerStores`. Does that mean `additionalLayerStores` is still TP?

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/nodes/nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage-limitations_{context}"]
= Limitations and known issues with additional CRI-O storage locations

[role="_abstract"]
When working with additional CRI-O storage locations, make note of the limitations and known issues that could affect your cluster.

The following limitations and known issues have been identified for additional CRI-O storage:

> * Lazy image pulling relies on HTTP range requests to pull in chunks. As such, your registry must support HTTP range requests. If not supported, CRI-O falls back to standard image pulls.

Reviewer: Minor: the rest of this PR carefully distinguishes "lazy pulling" (BYOS, on-demand at runtime via FUSE) from "partial pulling" (zstd:chunked, all chunks before container start). Using "Lazy image pulling" here as a catch-all re-blurs that line. Both modes require registry Range request support, but for different reasons.

Consider: "Lazy pulling and partial pulling rely on HTTP range requests. As such, your registry must support HTTP range requests."

> * When using an additional layer store for Bring Your Own Storage (BYOS) lazy pulling, you must convert the pulled container images from the standard OCI format to a compatible format, such as eStargz or Nydus. Note that the zstd:chunked format performs _partial pulling_, where all content is fetched before the container starts, then is deduplicated.

Reviewer: The first sentence scopes to BYOS. The appended zstd:chunked note describes something that doesn't use additional layer stores at all. Readers could conclude zstd:chunked is a BYOS option. Splitting into two bullets keeps each pulling mode in its own context.

```suggestion
* When using an additional layer store for Bring Your Own Storage (BYOS) lazy pulling, you must convert the pulled container images from the standard OCI format to a compatible format, such as eStargz or Nydus.

* The zstd:chunked format performs _partial pulling_, where all content is fetched before the container starts, then is deduplicated. Partial pulling does not use the `additionalLayerStores` field.
```

* After you configure additional CRI-O storage, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) reboots the affected nodes with the new configuration.

> * Storage plugin crashes or hangs can impact container creation. For more information, see "Troubleshoot additional storage locations for CRI-O".

Reviewer: Same title mismatch as the assembly xref. The troubleshooting module title is "Troubleshoot additional CRI-O storage locations".

```suggestion
* Storage plugin crashes or hangs can impact container creation. For more information, see "Troubleshoot additional CRI-O storage locations".
```

> * The additional layer store API is experimental upstream. Breaking changes are possible.

Reviewer: nit: "upstream" is vague. Naming the project helps users understand where the instability lives.

```suggestion
* The additional layer store API is experimental in the upstream containers/storage project. Breaking changes are possible.
```

* Multiple `ContainerRuntimeConfig` resources affecting the same configuration file might result in only a subset of the changes taking effect.

* This feature is not supported for {ms}, which does not use the Machine Config Operator.

> * If you need to downgrade your cluster to a {product-title} to a version 4.21 or earlier, before the downgrade, delete any `ContainerRuntimeConfig` resource that includes the `additionalArtifactStores`, `additionalImageStores`, or `additionalLayerStores` fields.

Reviewer: "to a {product-title} to a version" has a doubled phrase.

```suggestion
* If you need to downgrade your cluster to {product-title} version 4.21 or earlier, before the downgrade, delete any `ContainerRuntimeConfig` resource that includes the `additionalArtifactStores`, `additionalImageStores`, or `additionalLayerStores` fields.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/nodes/nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="nodes-nodes-additional-crio-storage-limitations_{context}"]
= Limitations and known issues with additional CRI-O storage locations

[role="_abstract"]
When working with additional CRI-O storage locations, make note of the limitations and known issues that could affect your cluster.

The following limitations and known issues have been identified for additional CRI-O storage:

* Lazy pulling and partial pulling rely on HTTP range requests. As such, your registry must support HTTP range requests. If not supported, CRI-O falls back to standard image pulls.

* When using an additional layer store for Bring Your Own Storage (BYOS) lazy pulling, you must convert the pulled container images from the standard OCI format to a compatible format, such as eStargz or Nydus.

> * The zstd:chunked format performs _partial pulling_, where all content is fetched before the container starts, then is deduplicated. Partial pulling does not use the `additionalLayerStores` field.

Reviewer: "where all content is fetched before the container starts, then is deduplicated" is imprecise. What zstd:chunked actually does: CRI-O reads the TOC, checks which chunks are already on disk from prior pulls, and fetches only the missing ones via HTTP Range requests. The deduplication happens at pull time (skip what's already present), not as a post-fetch step.

```suggestion
* The zstd:chunked format performs _partial pulling_, where CRI-O fetches only the missing chunks before the container starts, skipping content already present from prior pulls. Partial pulling does not use the `additionalLayerStores` field.
```
